---
description: Assets to be generated during the build process
---

# Build Construct

A Build Construct is what generates the build assets. These assets can be anything from a Dockerfile to a Makefile to a shell script. The code generated by a Build Construct is the code that will be executed on the developer's machine to build the server in a production-ready state.

## Creating a Build Construct

:::tip
Follow the [Getting Started][getting-started] guide to create a new Construct.
:::

To create a Build Construct, you need to set the `is_build` field in the `construct.yaml` file to `true`. This tells Revali that this construct is a Build Construct.

```yaml
constructs:
    - name: my_construct
      is_build: true
      ...
```

:::tip
Read more about [Construct Configuration][construct-config] and the [`is_build`][construct-config-is-build] field.
:::

## Pre-Build and Post-Build Hooks

A Build Construct can have two hooks: `preBuild` and `postBuild`. These hooks are executed before and after the build process, respectively.

These hooks can be used to perform any additional tasks that are required before or after the build process. For example, you can use the `preBuild` hook to verify for the presence of a required tool or the `postBuild` hook to deploy the built server.

```dart
import 'package:revali_construct/revali_construct.dart';

class MyConstruct extends BuildConstruct {
    const MyConstruct();

    @override
    BuildDirectory generate(RevaliBuildContext context, MetaServer server) {
        ...
    }

    @override
    Future<void> preBuild(RevaliBuildContext context, MetaServer server) async {
        ...
    }

    @override
    Future<void> postBuild(RevaliBuildContext context, MetaServer server) async {
        ...
    }
}
```

[getting-started]: ../getting-started/create-package.md
[construct-config]: ../getting-started/construct-config.md
[construct-config-is-build]: ../getting-started/construct-config.md#is_build
